hello and welcome to shred show I am
your host Chris grow and this is the
Internet's most stoked surfboard show
today we have one of the most popular
concave deck surfboards on the planet as
determined by you the shred nation in
the requests aboard inbox at shred show
calm if you don't know what a concave
deck on a surfboard is it's when the
deck has a concave similar to what you'd
normally find on the bottom of a
surfboard can you see that there right
there
one of the most common ways to talk
about a concave deck like this is to use
a skateboard as an example on a deck
like this the concave which goes from
here and dips down and comes up on the
other side is used in flip tricks to
help flip the board well on a board like
this the concave is used to give us
quicker response in turn so the question
is can we learn anything about the
performance of a concave deck surfboard
turning on water through studying a
skateboard that turns on an axial I
don't know but what we can all figure
out pretty easily is that when you take
a big chunk of foam out of the deck to
create this concave if it brings your
feet closer to the water than a flat
deck or a convex deck would some surfers
say the paddling on a board like this is
easier because your chest and stomach
fit on the board better other surfers
say concave deck is easier to balance on
the deck that has convex in it and many
surfers would say that this kind of a
board gives you a feeling of oneness
with the wave because when the water
passes across the bottom of the board
you can almost feel it tickling your
toes I know a lot of people get really
excited about concave decks but what
really excites me about this board is
how it employs these unique channels you
can probably see these channels and how
they're shaped back there into the back
of third of the board towards the tail
channels make a surfboard faster because
of how they create lift and because of
how they accelerate water flow but when
a channel is too deep it can be really
susceptible to chop on the water and
that can make the board just not work
also when a channel is straight that
makes the surfboard want to go straight
these channels are really unique because
they are curved and because the channels
are shallow they're not really that deep
the curve means that the board can
actually maneuver and wants to do things
other than go straight and the shallow
depth of the channels means that the
Borgo completely shut down when the
conditions get messy what that means is
that this board is abnormally versatile
when you compare it to other surfboards
with channels that only work with the
wave
are good in the waters glassy and the
sun's out and there's free burritos in
the parking lot that's what I call
perfect the channels on this board will
have a really strong relationship to
your fins because of the way that the
channels run on the inside edges of the
leading two fins and the quad fins one
of the things that we know about fins is
that the width of the base directly
relates to how much drive and speed we
have coming off of bottom term so if we
put a fin in the quad trailing position
on the board we can easily see how
functionally the fin has an elongated
base because of the way that the channel
relates to the fin kind of similar to
the way that plants work with the Sun to
create photosynthesis except channels
and fins work together to create a speed
and drive that means that if you set
this board up as a quad you can probably
push it into hyperdrive pretty quickly
because of the way that the base of your
fins will work with the channel
I think this tail design is really cool
because it keeps the outline flow going
all the way back to the end of the board
right here but then right in front of
the rear quad trailer we have a step
rail that starts to happen right here
can you see that how the rail shaves
down to create a step down in the rail
like right here in my mind that helps
keep the planning area on the bottom of
the board wide coming out here through
the tail but we also have this rounded
thumb tail that starts to emerge from
right where the rail starts to step down
that promotes a long arc in our turns as
returning but because of the way that
the planning area comes out here back
towards the round of thumb tail that
gives us a point where we can really
push it and break out of our turns if we
really want to it's interesting to note
that these channels actually occur
within a double concave on the board we
can see that the double concave runs all
the way up through the rear quad
trailers and continues going all the way
up in a mighty healthy V and then
eventually dropping out towards the
thumb tail this is really subtle and you
might not be able to see it at home but
if you could look really closely at the
V on this board it actually is pretty
deep right here but then he shaves off
the stringer in the foam up towards the
tail to make this right here much
thinner than this right here that means
that we can have a little bit of extra
push up towards the lift because of the
imbalance that that creates right back
here in the back part of the tail the
deck of this surfboard has a very strong
relationship to the rails of the
surfboard because since we've taken
volume out of the deck to create this
concave we have to add a little bit of
volume to the rails if you feel one of
these rails in the surf shop you could
tell pretty easily that the goal of
these rails is
be pushed along by the water not cut in
and sink really deeply down into the
water now as a shaper it's very
difficult to add so many features into
one surfboard because every time that
you had a channel or a step rail or a
concave in the deck
each one of them affects the performance
of the board and you have to carefully
balance them all but according to many
surfers like jarred Sutton and others
Todd really nailed this board for turns
and speed in waves that are about ankle
to shoulder high that does it for this
episode if you've ever served the
proctor Apache or any surfboards with a
concave deck please tell us about your
experiences below if you liked the video
please click like not the thumb but the
actual button below the video on YouTube
we really look forward to seeing you
next time